change the realities of graduate programs?
Well, we had one guy who had his computer burned twice and lost his dissertation twice in the computer.
And we actually gave him an extension over his deadline to get it in, because it was an honest problem.
It put a lot of typists out of business.
Because even Piper could write a dissertation now and correct it and get it within the lines.
Did the average student begin to type his or her?
I think.
I would guess probably at least 75%, if not more, with their own dissertations.
Once computers became... Now, did they still submit their proposals during all your years?
Did they still send a copy of their thesis or dissertation proposal to the graduate college?
Yeah, we had to approve it.
And did you all also see a copy of the finished product, the thesis?
You didn't see that?
The thesis edition clerk would take care of that.
And then they had to send an abstract to the
organization that published the abstracts of all the dissertations.
What were some of the memorable excuses that graduate students and or their director made for some of the problems they supposedly encountered?
There must have been some incredible
Any excuses for not meeting a deadline?
Really, there weren't very many excuses until we had the time limit on master's and doctoral degrees.
And then people began to make all kinds of excuses.
The number of years between the time they started and the time they must finish.
I can't remember what it was exactly.
I think it was six years for a master's and nine years for a doctorate, which is a lot of time.
What were some of the goofy excuses?
Well, one that I didn't think was very goofy was a fellow who was a sack pilot and was getting a degree.
because of his flight schedule.
And we took all of those types of things to the Graduate Council.
We didn't feel like an individual should make that sort of a decision.
And they turned him down.
The guy with his burning computer was pretty easily
I can't remember very many other excuses.
Do you remember any problems that women had in the graduate programs here?
Only one of my students.
But no, honestly, I don't know of any.
What about minorities?
We had, matter of fact, I just threw away the federal court
proceedings the other day.
We had one student who was a minority, failed his prelims twice, claimed that his chairman was biased, so we backed down and let him get a new chairman in a new committee.
He failed his prelims again and still didn't get the picture.
And I dropped him from graduate school, and he went to federal court and filed suit for discrimination.
And I think he named everybody in the university.
Actually, there were
two pages, two columns of two-page names.
And the system attorney sent me a copy and I read that thing three times and I never did find my name.
I found everybody else in the school, but nothing ever came of it.
And then we dropped another guy who
I can't remember what his problem was, but he claimed we, he wasn't a minority either I don't think.
But his case actually came to federal court in Houston and Vanderbilt was the other one
but several of us were down there as witnesses, and they started the proceedings, and of course the witnesses can't go into the courtroom, and neither could Vanderbilt, I don't think.
But anyway, the judge heard the attorneys for the plaintiff,
So we all went out to lunch together and celebrated.
Do you remember any attempted fraudulent dissertations or thesis matters that you all had to deal with?
No.
No plagiarism, data copying and so forth that was inappropriate?
I can't remember any.
There may have been some.
I think probably a committee would take care of that before it ever got as far as a graduate college.
In hindsight, during those years, is there any process that A&M should have been doing that it wasn't, or were we doing it about the right way?
I think we were doing it about right.
I'm proud of what we did.
Now did you have any assistant dean or associate dean?
Yeah, I had an associate dean, Frank Clark.
From what department?
He was from industrial education, which doesn't exist anymore, and I had a lady from
geography, but actually she was an anthropologist.
I'll be blessed.
I can't tell you more.
Well, we'll get it later.
And what were their duties?
Well, they approved degree programs and thesis proposals and dissertation proposals and that sort of thing.
Frank handled admissions, and I actually worked on degree programs from science and geoscience.
You're talking about proposed new degree programs.
I think Frank handled all admissions.
Now during those years that you were associate dean and assistant dean, our graduate admissions grew greatly in number and in breadth.
Was our growth in terms of the makeup of the student body, lots more international students, was there anything different about our growth and progress from other major public institutions?
I don't think so.
I think all of them were growing then because research money was easy to get.
And where was that research money coming from?
National Science Foundation primarily in the sciences, Department of Education I guess
and Education and Department of Agriculture and Agriculture.
That's the biggest boondoggle in the world.
Most of it was federal?
Yeah.
Agriculture, I don't know.
Those people get money and travel around.
I don't know where it comes from.
They always have a big agriculture budget, and it's supposed to go to farmers, but I don't know where it goes.
Now, you participated in all of the administrative sessions.
You, as dean of the graduate school, had the same status as the deans of each of the academic colleges.
During those years that you were either associate dean or the dean, which other college dean had the most influence?
Was there any college that
Like agriculture, engineering, did they have more wallop than?
It depended on the particular person.
I think it was a personality thing more than money or number of students.
Which persons?
I'd say Fred Benson was rather influential.
Engineering?
Engineering.
Why?
I think I know the answer, but why?
I think he shouted the loudest.
I've always thought he fought his battles carefully.
Well, he did that, but he fought some battles that shouldn't have been fought.
Who else?
Science had a pretty influential deal.
Corrigan seemed to be influential, primarily from his ability to debate, I think, more than anything else.
I was probably the least influential.
bureaucracy, hierarchy was never a factor in the real world of the graduate school, was it?
Let's see, women, minorities, fraud, technology.
Let's see, goofy moments, silly moments you remember?
There's one I've done involved with graduate college that I think is hilarious.
Do you remember Professor Whiting?
Yes, Whiting.
Did you know his son?
Don't believe so.
He was sort of a character.
He came trips and into the Zachary building one day barefoot in shorts and a t-shirt.
And Dean Benson did not like people with barefoot in shirts and t-shirts.
And he was up on the balcony in the Zachary building and he shouted down, hey you.
And Bobby looked around and didn't see anybody and started to walk again, you in the barefoot.
And he said, is that you, God?
And at that point, Benson didn't have anything more to say.
Oh, that's a good one.
That's a good one.
Let's see.
Do you remember, excuse me, go ahead.
I can't remember any goofy moments.
What about serious, serious and or tragic moments?
people who would get abusive to the staff and we'd have to go out and calm things down.
Example?
Oh, they'd want something that they couldn't provide and they'd get upset.
I can't think of exact things.
We actually had to call a campus
please one time to remove a graduate student from the office.
I don't know what his problem was.
He was just upset.
Was it a graduate college junior staff young woman working on a Saturday morning that got threatened with rape in the hallway of the Teague building?
Gosh, I don't know anything about that.
Let me turn this back to, do you remember any tragic or serious?
No.
Well, there are always tragic things in graduate programs.
Some people fail, but I don't remember anything.
And no legislator or rich parent or anything ever called you or anybody else?
No.
Any special favors that anybody ever asked for?
To let this student get admitted or anything like that?
The only one I can ever think of was my own.
Kunji had a...
policy if somebody had 1,200 on the GRE, he'd let them in regardless of their undergraduate record.
My son-in-law had a potential son-in-law.
No, he was my son-in-law.
He had a pretty good record, but he started going out with my daughter, and that semester
grades plunged.
And he had an 1170 on the GRE and a 2.8, I think, or a 2.9, and I let him in.
I told George about it later.
He said, well, I probably would have done the same thing.
But that's the only time I can ever think of that we warped
And I, truthfully, I was never approached by anybody other than somebody in the department to let somebody in.
Did any of the programs in those days have a numerical ceiling that normally they would admit only so many per year?
I think so, but I couldn't name one.
Some of the departments just got so many students.
Chemistry, for example, had, I don't know, 175 students, something like that.
They just had the faculty take care of them.
Right, and you think that A&M was truly making progress in those years?
Oh, yeah.
Did other schools give, did you have colleagues elsewhere
in higher education that gave the impression they thought A&M was moving forward also?
Yeah.
In hindsight, is there anything we could have done more of or done better in those years that we?
The only thing that we could have done that would have improved things was to establish
We had quite a few of those, actually.
But you mean just more?
If you can support a good student, he'll come to your institution rather than going to another one where he's not supported.
And there's not anything you can think of that you personally wish you had done?
No.
Well, as you, let's see, 1984 is when you retired as dean?
87.
How did you feel as you were completing more than 20 years of service at A&M?
Well, they asked me to make the response for the
I turned them down because I knew I'd break into tears, and I would have.
Matter of fact, they had a retirement party for me as graduate dean, and it was all I could do to say thank you.
Where did they have it?
Over in the MSC.
And was there a special gift?
Yeah, a couple of books.
I hope they teased you about a few things.
Did they attempt any humor or teasing?
I think so, but that whole thing's a big blur to me.
Let's see, did I just ask you is there anything you wish you had done now that you didn't do?
You've asked me.
I don't think so.
What have I left out?
What have I not covered so far?
I've just about run out of questions.
I think you've covered everything.
If you were Texas A&M's consultant now about graduate programs here at Texas A&M, what advice would you give them?
I would reestablish a graduate college and give it the clout that it had back in the old days.
Why?
I agree with you, but why?
Well, I think departments are admitting students, foreign students in particular, primarily to do research, and they don't care too much whether they get a degree or not.
let the quality slip, and they just need to have somebody watching over them other than their own dean.
Do you think there are any areas where we are not doing real graduate work that we ought to?
What do you mean?
Well, are there some areas that a school like Texas A&M ought to be doing graduate work in that we're not?
Oh, I don't think so.
They want to do graduate work in humanities, but A&M's not that kind of school in my mind.
See, I'm on your side like in the music and the fine arts.
I like music and I like all the fine arts, but that's not part of our background.
Well they ought to have a program that teaches music and teaches fine arts and teaches liberal arts type things, but they sure as heck don't need a degree program.
There you go.
But I think that engineers and scientists need to be exposed to that sort of thing.
All right, then any other advice you would give to the administration?
Yeah, build on your strengths.
Don't try to emulate some other university or college because they're looked on highly.
Should A&M attempt to make its graduate programs larger numerically than they are now?
I don't have the slightest idea how big they are numerically now, but I think they should always try to increase graduate students.
I don't think they should increase graduate students simply to get teachers for the undergraduate programs.
I think they ought to build their graduate programs to
And unfortunately, that happens.
MIT is a good example of that.
And that's one school that they keep talking about becoming, the MIT of the Gold Coast.
All right.
Then my last question is, let's make believe that somebody gave you a check for a million dollars or more with one requirement.
that you must pass that on to Texas A&M, but you decide the use that should be made with that.
If you had the capacity to make a major gift to Texas A&M for any purpose, what purpose would you want that money used for?
I'd probably opt for an endowed professorship someplace.
Such as?
I would actually look for oceanography.
But a million dollars is sort of useless in supporting students.
If you invest it, what, you get $40,000 a year maybe?
That'll support three, four students.
If you put in an endowed professorship, it would at least give the faculty members some money to do some research.
The university would still have to pay a salary.
A million dollars.
It actually doesn't amount to much in the university business when you stop to think about it.
We got a grant of $10 million, I think, in the graduate college just before I left.
Kunze was still dean then.
No, he wasn't.
I guess I was dean then.
And I wanted to put it aside and just move off the income.
But it was spent.
Anderson took care of that.
All right, then my true last question.
What feelings do you carry in your heart for Texas A&M today?
I think it's a great school.
I carry higher regards for Texas A&M
My undergraduate school is still number one, I guess.
I really sort of am sorry I'm not in Hagee, to be truthful with you.
It's a great tradition, and they're fast losing it.
Let's quit there.